after 21 years in service the dc-8 fleet
has carried its last load for ups flight
41 95 from Philadelphia to Louisville on
May 12th was the last scheduled revenue
flight for a UPS dc-8 before the
remaining airplanes in the fleet are
retired has made a lot of history on a
lot of miles for us and it's been a very
solid performer so we're gonna miss it
the 8th as it's known was once the
backbone of the airline the company at
one time operated 49 of the 4 engine
jets it's also important in UPS history
the Airlines first revenue flight in
1988 was operated by a dc-8 as was UPS's
first international air service to and
from Cologne Germany but newer aircraft
in the fleet are more efficient in the
economic recession and declining volume
prompted the company to speed up the
fleet's retirement it's hard it's it's
just really hard I'm it's it's
bittersweet I kind of don't know what to
think I'm really gonna miss it
I'm gonna miss my flight engineer it's
our last three-person aircraft that
carries a flight engineer and that's
what I do
so with the dc-8 retiring that's where
I'm going to go to I'm gonna retire
although old this particular airplane
has been in service for more than 41
years UPS's dc-8 had received some
modern upgrades over the years including
new engines a new autopilot and new
flight instrumentation you've got to pay
a little bit more attention to the
airplane captain bill pry Fogle called
the dc-8 a pilots airplane one that
requires more involvement to fly than
newer aircraft but it's a very stable
airplane and it's a it's kind of like an
old friend if you take care of it it'll
take care of you
UPS currently owns 44 dc-8s most have
already been retired to an aircraft
storage facility in Roswell New Mexico
and the remaining operational aircraft
will be ferried to Roswell in the next
few weeks ten of the aircraft with the
most current maintenance are up for sale
the company will honor the dc-8s
contribution to the airline with a large
plaque in the air service center on it
is the nosewheel door from n8 a tup the
aircraft that operated UPS is first
flight in 1988
you